# Using AutoGluon on Tabular datasets

## Why use AutoGluon?

AutoGluon is an open source package within the class of AutoML techniques to make machine learning easier and more accessible. The description of AutoGluon is stated as (from [1]):

AutoGluon enables easy-to-use and easy-to-extend AutoML with a focus on automated stack ensembling, deep learning, and real-world applications spanning image, text, and tabular data. Intended for both ML beginners and experts, 

AutoGluon enables you to:

- Quickly prototype deep learning and classical ML solutions for your raw data with a few lines of code.
- Automatically utilize state-of-the-art techniques (where appropriate) without expert knowledge.
- Leverage automatic hyperparameter tuning, model selection/ensembling, architecture search, and data processing.
- Easily improve/tune your bespoke models and data pipelines, or customize AutoGluon for your use-case.

I was interested to try to use this on a real world example to explore the possibilities and learn more about model building using this tool. Online research indicated that it is particularly useful for modeling tabular datasets out of the box, so I selected the American Express — Default Prediction Kaggle competition. The advantages of using a Kaggle dataset are:

- Datasets are public, so there are no worries regarding disclosing work-related confidential information.
- The Kaggle community is large and numerous people publish their modeling techniques. While some folks are serious about winning, most people use it to learn various modeling approaches and use their results to compare against the state-of-the-art.
- The public and private leaderboards provide a ready ability to evaluate the designed models.

Using AutoGluon to come up with a starting model for this competition provides an opportunity to come up with a baseline model with minimal starting effort. Once we have a baseline model, then we could work more on fine-tuning, hyper parameter optimization , feature engineering and other architectural improvements to improve the overall accuracy.
